Add ERC: Shielded Note Teleportation (#1800)
ethereum/ERCs: ERCS/erc-8290.md

---
eip: 8290
title: Shielded Note Teleportation
description: A method for importing and exporting notes between UTXO-based privacy protocols.
author: georgeh (@geovgy)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/erc-8290-shielded-note-teleportation/28721
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2026-06-05
---

## Abstract

> This standard defines a method for exporting a shielded note from one UTXO-based privacy protocol and importing it into another without publicly withdrawing and re-depositing the underlying asset. Similar to [EIP-7503](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-7503), sender creates a note in source pool bound to a destination-specific burn address. A destination protocol imports the note by verifying that the burn commitment is included in a recognized source pool root, that the source root is included in a trusted canonical tree, and that the imported output preserves the source note's asset context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This standard defines a method for exporting a shielded note from one UTXO-based privacy protocol and importing it into another without publicly withdrawing and re-depositing the underlying asset. Similar to [EIP-7503](./eip-7503.md), sender creates a note in source pool bound to a destination-specific burn address. A destination protocol imports the note by verifying that the burn commitment is included in a recognized source pool root, that the source root is included in a trusted canonical tree, and that the imported output preserves the source note's asset context.
```

## Motivation
UTXO-based privacy protocols are usually isolated privacy sets. Moving between them requires a public withdrawal from one pool followed by a public deposit into another. This creates a linkable transition that may reveal the asset, amount, source pool, destination pool, timing, and recipient.

Shielded note teleportation changes the movement between pools from a public asset flow into a proof of prior membership. The source protocol does not need to transfer assets directly to the destination protocol. Instead, it creates a burn note that only the intended receiver can import. The destination protocol then verifies that the burned note existed in a recognized source pool root and creates the corresponding destination note or withdrawal.

The result is a positive-sum privacy primitive: existing privacy sets can become mutually composable, and a destination pool can accept private state transitions from multiple source pools without requiring all protocols to share the same note commitment format.

## Specification

> The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119) and [RFC 8174](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174).
```

### Hash Function

Implementations MUST define the field, hash function, byte encoding, and tree hashers used by their circuits. The reference implementation uses BN254 field elements and Poseidon-style hashes for native pool commitments and custom canonical tree proofs. Protocol-specific adapters MAY use the source protocol's native tree hasher for source membership proofs.

All string domain separators used as field elements MUST have a canonical encoding. The domain separator for burn addresses is:

```text
ZKTELEPORT
```

### Burn Address

The burn address MUST be computed as:

```text
burnAddress = H(
    chainId,
    dstPoolAddress,
    receiver,
    burnSecret,
    "ZKTELEPORT"
)
```

where:

- `chainId` is the [EIP-155](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-155) chain identifier of the destination pool.
- `dstPoolAddress` is the destination pool address.
- `receiver` is the destination owner or receiver authorized to import the note.
- `burnSecret` is secret entropy chosen for this teleport.

> - `"ZKTELEPORT"` is the domain separator.

Reviewer: Review comment: You likely want to define the types here to prevent incorrect padding here.

Author: Added text below on [line 77](https://github.com/ethereum/ERCs/pull/1800/changes#diff-ea87cd3343f938d7ca027d8969445ef6268b3d7060b8b0e41a1c5bbcbd36ed52R77) about the types. Let me know if this seems clear enough.

        receiver,
        burn_secret,
        Field::from_be_bytes("ZKTELEPORT".as_bytes()),
    ]);

    let burn_commitment = note.to_commitment(
        burn_address,
        token,
        token_id,
    );

    assert_merkle_leaf_membership(
        src_pool_root,
        burn_commitment,
        note.index,
        note.siblings,
    );

    let asset_context = hash([
        token,
        token_id,
        src_chain_id as Field,
        src_pool_address,
    ]);

    let canonical_leaf = hash([
        src_chain_id as Field,
        block_number as Field,
        src_pool_address,
        hash([asset_context, src_pool_root]),
    ]);

    assert_merkle_leaf_membership(
        canonical_root,
        canonical_leaf,
        canonical_index,
        canonical_siblings,
    );

    let teleport_nullifier = note.to_destination_nullifier();

    constrain_public_nullifier(teleport_nullifier);
    constrain_destination_output(destination_commitment, asset_context, receiver);
    constrain_operation_digest(destination_operation_digest, canonical_root, teleport_nullifier, destination_commitment);
}
```

Destination contracts can expose an import method equivalent to:

> ```solidity

Reviewer: Can you add a pragma solidity version here to future-proof this solidity block?

Author: Added.
